# Stellar-Mass-Estimates-SDSS_DR12
1 Introduction
Within the Google Drive for the SPIDERS project files, there are 5 Colab scripts within the .ipynb checkpoints folder. Of these, the files titled Characterize Dataset-checkpoint.ipynb, Create and check dataset-checkpoint.ipynb, and Create and check dataset.ipynb all perform essen- tially the same function, so only one of these is described below.
2 Create and check dataset-checkpoint.ipynb
Within the Drive, raw data obtained from SDSS for clusters and bright central galaxies (BCGs) is provided under two files, namely catCluster-SPIDERS-RASS-CLUS-v3.0.fits (for clusters) and SpidersXclusterBCGs-v2.0.fits (for BCGs). These files are located in the Data folder of the Drive. This Colab script reads this data and creates a dataframe that corresponds clusters to objects and uses this data to generate some plots.
First, cluster and BCG data are joined in Joined-data, so that clusters with no BCG data are dropped. Then, for each cluster, SDSS data is queried to find objects within 2R200c of the cluster, and data from the resulting objects is appended to data lists for each cluster. All the lists are then concatenated into one large data frame Galaxy-data containing all the data.
Following this, the apparent magnitude (measured through red filter) for each galaxy is obtained by subtracting the calculated extinction for the galaxy from the measured magnitude value. The galaxy’s absolute magnitude is then obtained by subtracting its distance modulus from the apparent magnitude. Then, the g-r colour value of the galaxy is obtained by finding the apparent magnitude measured through green filter and subtracting this by the earlier apparent magnitude value. The g-r colour value along with the galaxy’s redshift (and the red filter as base) are then input into a pre-defined k-correction module: K-correction Module. This module outputs a k-correction value k using which the galaxy’s absolute magnitude may be calculated in its rest frame as Mrrest = Mrmeasured + 1.3z − k.
The galaxy and cluster data is then written into the file titled SPIDERS-Dataset.hdf5.
Now, four plots are created. Figure 1 depicts the richness of clusters (measure of the number of galaxies in cluster) in the data set as a function of the cluster redshift. Figure 2 depicts the magnitude of the galaxies as a function of their redshift. Figure 3 depicts a magnitude histogram, i.e., number of galaxies present in each magnitude bin. Figure 4 depicts the galaxies’ measured velocity along the line of sight of observation as a function of the richness of the galaxy’s host cluster, with the orange line depicting the velocity cutoff, i.e., all galaxies with velocities above the cutoff are removed from the data sample.

3 Parameter Grid-checkpoint
Using the data obtained from running the previous script, this Colab script plots various values for the parameters involved in the velocity dispersion scaling relation for galaxies. Galaxy data is scaled using an ensemble likelihood estimator. The method are described in detail in Section 3 of the Anbajagane et al. (2021) paper (along with the method for scaling dark matter halo data, which is done using KLLR).
Once the data is input into the script titled Measure-Scaling-Relation.py, the output is a text file containing the parameter fit values for each galaxy in all the clusters contained in the sample. This is after the velocity cutoff from the previous Colab script is applied to the data.
The first plot grid is that of the averaged values of π, α, β, ε, and p is then plotted as a function of galaxy magnitude threshold, along with error bars. Here, the various parameters represent the following quantities within the power-law scaling relation (Eqns. 4 and 5 in Section 3 of the paper):
• π: Normalization in decimal-log • α: Slope from richness
• β: Slope from redshift
• ε: Intrinsic scatter
• p: Mean fraction of galaxies which are true members of cluster with corresponding index
The second plot grid gives the deviation of π and α from a standard reference value, chosen here to
be their values for Mr < −20.5.
The third grid shows the correlations of all possible pairs of parameters from the above list. Correla- tions of pairs of the same parameter are given by one-dimensional distributions, while those belonging to pairs of different parameters are given by two-dimensional distributions. Each subplot corresponds to a parameter pair, and the correlation is measured in three different magnitude ranges: Mr < −20.5, Mr < −212.5, Mr < −22.5.
The fourth grid depicts these parameter values as a function of galaxy stellar mass threshold for various simulations (listed in figure), with galaxy redshift values of 0, 0.5 or 1. Error bars are present, but are usually subsumed within data point markers. Further details are available on page 9 of the aforementioned paper.
